2014-04~06



http://www.womenofchina.cn/html/womenofchina/report/172679-1.htm



Uyghur Students Write Open Letter Condemning Terrorist Attack at Train Station - All China Women's Federation



Eleven Uygur university students wrote an open letter to condemn the bomb and knife attack carried out by alleged "Xinjiang separatist forces" at an exit of the South Railway Station of Urumqi, capital of China's far-western region Xinjiang, on April 30, 2014, China News Service reported. The letter, written by 11 Uyghur students from 9 universities in China's mainland, stirred heated public discussion as soon as it was posted online on May 1, one day after the attack which left three people dead and 79 wounded. These students blamed the terrorist attack on civilians in an indiscriminative manner and called on the Uygur people to fight against the extremist activities. The open letter was prominently placed on the homepages of many news websites and hundreds of thousands of netizens commented. "Your voice is the whole voice of the Uygur ethnic group and I want to show my respect to you. Every ethnic group has bad people and from an overall perspective the Uygur people are good," a netizen called Dong Jianxun from Beijing said. Another netizen of Hui nationality said he was frightened by the spate of terrorist attacks and afraid of going to areas populated by Uygur people. "Thanks for your brave action, we should unite to prevent these attackers to harm our relatives again," he said. "I am deeply moved by the open letter and I think the whole Xinjiang people feel ashamed of this cruel attack," said a netizen named "Bailongma". Nearly all netizens agreed with the idea that the tiny number of terrorists does not represent the whole ethnic group and people of all ethnic groups of the country should cherish national unity. "Religious believers should care about people's lives instead of killing these innocent people," said a netizen "Jiliuyuhuixuan". "We can't be defeated by such atrocities. Instead, we should fight against these regional separatists," netizen "Bo Cui" commented. The university students came up with 11 questions to slam the terrorists' atrocity and the disaster and pain they brought to all Chinese people. Please understand that womenofchina.cn,a non-profit, information-communication website, cannot reach every writer before using articles and images. For copyright issues, please contact us by emailing: website@womenofchina.cn. The articles published and opinions expressed on this website represent the opinions of writers and are not necessarily shared by womenofchina.cn.  Copyright 2005-2014 All rights reserved. Women's Foreign Language Publications of China.  Email: website@womenofchina.cn



