2014-07~09



http://article.wn.com/view/2014/09/23/Prominent_Uighur_academic_Ilham_Tohti_jailed_for_life/



Prominent Uighur academic Ilham Tohti jailed for life - Worldnews.com



A court in China has found a prominent Uighur scholar guilty of separatism and jailed him for life, his lawyer says. Get the top news stories delivered directly to your inbox! A court in China has found a prominent Uighur scholar guilty of separatism and jailed him for life, his lawyer says. Ilham Tohti had spoken out on China's policies towards... 23 September 2014 Last updated at 09:46 BST A prominent Uighur scholar has been found guilty of separatism and jailed for life by a court in China, his lawyer has said.... A court in China has found a prominent Uighur scholar guilty of separatism and jailed him for life, his lawyer says. Ilham Tohti,... Tohti, a critic of government policy towards the mostly Muslim Uighurs, could face the death penalty Charged Uighur academic Ilham Tohti at his Beijing university before... Prominent Uighur academic Ilham Tohti is going on trial for separatism in China's far western region of Xinjiang. Mr Tohti is an economics scholar who has criticised Beijing's policies towards the Uighur minority. He has been detained since January, after he condemned the government's response to a suicide car attack in Tiananmen Square. The United Nations, the EU and US have... Students of prominent activist, who is serving a life sentence, have been charged with separatism, rights lawyers said Ilham Tohti lost his appeal against a life sentence for separatism in November. Photograph: Andy Wong/AP A Chinese court has sentenced seven students of the jailed Uighur scholar... Seven students of imprisoned Uighur academic Ilham Tohti have been convicted of separatism and jailed, a lawyer for Tohti says. The students, who went on trial in China's far western region of Xinjiang last month, received terms of between three and eight years. They were accused of contributing to a website run by Tohti on Uighurs. Tohti was sentenced to life imprisonment in... Ilham Tohti during his trial on separatism charges. Photo: Reuters Urumqi: In a prosecution condemned by foreign governments and human rights groups, China has sentenced prominent Uighur scholar Ilham Tohti to life in jail on charges of separatism. "The wide attention of the case has made them come down especially heavy with the sentence," Mr Tohti's lawyer Li Fangping told... BEIJING - A court in China's restive Xinjiang region sentenced a prominent ethnic Uighur scholar to life in prison Tuesday after convicting him of inciting separatism, his lawyer said. The sentence came after international calls for the release of Ilham Tohti, 44, who was arrested at his Beijing apartment in January. He was sent to his home region of Xinjiang, about 2,000... BEIJING: The lawyer for an outspoken scholar from China's Uighur minority said on Tuesday his client has been found guilty of separatism and sentenced to life in jail. The Urumqi People's Intermediate Court sentenced scholar Ilham Tohti on Tuesday after a two-day trial. Separatism... Gadis Uighur terkenal akan kecantikannya. Gadis-gadis cantik ini adalah dari keturunan suku uighur. Suku Uighur atau Uygur, Uigur, Uyghur adalah salah satu suku minoritas resmi di Republik Rakyat Cina. Suku ini merupakan keturunan dari suku kuno Huihe yang tersebar di Asia Tengah, menuturkan bahasa Uighur dan memeluk agama Islam.... Gadis Uighur terkenal akan kecantikannya. Gadis-gadis cantik ini adalah dari keturunan suku uighur. Suku Uighur atau Uygur, Uigur, Uyghur adalah salah satu suku minoritas resmi di Republik Rakyat Cina. Suku ini merupakan keturunan dari suku kuno Huihe yang tersebar di Asia Tengah, menuturkan bahasa Uighur dan memeluk agama Islam.... EconomistMagazine videos: Carolyn Drake, a photographer, tells The Economist about life on the edge of the desert for the Uighur people of Xinjiang and their uneasy relationship with the Han Chinese, in light of continuing unrest in Urumqi. Added to www.audiovideo.economist.com in July 2009. Subscribe NOW to The Economist: http://econ.st/1Fsu2Vj Get more The Economist Follow us: https://twitter.com/TheEconomist Like us: https://www.facebook.com/TheEconomist View photos: https://instagram.com/theeconomist/ The Economist videos give authoritative insight and opinion on international news, politics, business, finance, science, technology and the connections between them.... EconomistMagazine videos: Carolyn Drake, a photographer, tells The Economist about life on the edge of the desert for the Uighur people of Xinjiang and their uneasy relationship with the Han Chinese, in light of continuing unrest in Urumqi. Added to www.audiovideo.economist.com in July 2009. Subscribe NOW to The Economist: http://econ.st/1Fsu2Vj Get more The Economist Follow us: https://twitter.com/TheEconomist Like us: https://www.facebook.com/TheEconomist View photos: https://instagram.com/theeconomist/ The Economist videos give authoritative insight and opinion on international news, politics, business, finance, science, technology and the connections between them.... 4 Fakta Uighur Suku Tempat Lahirnya Para Wanita Paling Cantik di Dunia https://youtu.be/gWDQztWjcWY Klik Disini Untuk Melihat Video Kami Lainnya : https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCui_lR2IStyWLCah6ltwj5A... 4 Fakta Uighur Suku Tempat Lahirnya Para Wanita Paling Cantik di Dunia https://youtu.be/gWDQztWjcWY Klik Disini Untuk Melihat Video Kami Lainnya : https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCui_lR2IStyWLCah6ltwj5A... Uighur Dilemma (2009): Ever since the violence between Muslim Uighurs and Han Chinese, a fear of fanaticism has taken hold. Is the government\'s decision to demolish the Uighur area Kashgar really due to an earthquake threat? For downloads and more information visit http://journeyman.tv/59768/short-films/uighur-dilemma.html Kashgar is a cultural icon. Parts of the city have stood for 2000 years and within its labyrinth, Uighur traditions are unchanged. \'We live as we did in the old times\' says Tursun, a 6 generation pot thrower. But times are changing. Beijing\'s deputy mayor has announced that destruction of the old town is the only way to prepare for an earthquake threat. \'I spent my whole childhood in this place. If they destroy it, we can\'t continue our business\' cries one of Kashgar\'s many blacksmiths. Many Uighur\'s are convinced that the authorities \'never tell the truth\'. Yet some are happy to be rehoused in government buildings, admitting that their homes are dangerous. Kashgar is of great strategic value for China - if small separatist groups here link with Taliban insurgents across the border, there could be a full-scale armed conflict in Western China. \'If a handful of religious extremists, or international terrorists appear, we will crack down on them immediately\' says Beijing\'s deputy mayor. His plan could rebuild a sour relationship. Or give the Uighurs a new reason to throw off Chinese occupation of their homeland. ABC Australia - Ref. 4499 Journeyman Pictures is your independent source for the world\'s most powerful films, exploring the burning issues of t... Uighur Dilemma (2009): Ever since the violence between Muslim Uighurs and Han Chinese, a fear of fanaticism has taken hold. Is the government\'s decision to demolish the Uighur area Kashgar really due to an earthquake threat? For downloads and more information visit http://journeyman.tv/59768/short-films/uighur-dilemma.html Kashgar is a cultural icon. Parts of the city have stood for 2000 years and within its labyrinth, Uighur traditions are unchanged. \'We live as we did in the old times\' says Tursun, a 6 generation pot thrower. But times are changing. Beijing\'s deputy mayor has announced that destruction of the old town is the only way to prepare for an earthquake threat. \'I spent my whole childhood in this place. If they destroy it, we can\'t continue our business\' cries one of Kashgar\'s many blacksmiths. Many Uighur\'s are convinced that the authorities \'never tell the truth\'. Yet some are happy to be rehoused in government buildings, admitting that their homes are dangerous. Kashgar is of great strategic value for China - if small separatist groups here link with Taliban insurgents across the border, there could be a full-scale armed conflict in Western China. \'If a handful of religious extremists, or international terrorists appear, we will crack down on them immediately\' says Beijing\'s deputy mayor. His plan could rebuild a sour relationship. Or give the Uighurs a new reason to throw off Chinese occupation of their homeland. ABC Australia - Ref. 4499 Journeyman Pictures is your independent source for the world\'s most powerful films, exploring the burning issues of t... Di dunia ini ada ribuan suku yang tersebar, dan di Indonesia sendiri ada puluhan yang tersebar di seluruh pulau di Indonesia. Dan setiap suku yang ada di seluruh dunia ini mempunyai ciri khasnya mereka sendiri sendiri. Termasuk Suku Uighur, suku ini menjadi perhatian para pria di seluruh dunia, karena dari suku ini lah lahir para wanita cantik yang membuat pria dimanapun kagum Walaupun tidak banyak yang belum mengetahui mengenai keberadaan suku yang satu ini, namun fakta mengatakan kalau wanita dari suku Uighur ini sangatlah cantik. Walaupun terlahir dengan paras yang sangat cantik, tapi hidup mereka sebenarnya sama saja dengan wanita pada umumnya di dunia ini, mereka juga mempunyai masalah yang tidak terlihat seperti wanita lainnya di dunia ini bukan? Inilah fakta para wanita Uighur yang akan membuatmu terpana... Di dunia ini ada ribuan suku yang tersebar, dan di Indonesia sendiri ada puluhan yang tersebar di seluruh pulau di Indonesia. Dan setiap suku yang ada di seluruh dunia ini mempunyai ciri khasnya mereka sendiri sendiri. Termasuk Suku Uighur, suku ini menjadi perhatian para pria di seluruh dunia, karena dari suku ini lah lahir para wanita cantik yang membuat pria dimanapun kagum Walaupun tidak banyak yang belum mengetahui mengenai keberadaan suku yang satu ini, namun fakta mengatakan kalau wanita dari suku Uighur ini sangatlah cantik. Walaupun terlahir dengan paras yang sangat cantik, tapi hidup mereka sebenarnya sama saja dengan wanita pada umumnya di dunia ini, mereka juga mempunyai masalah yang tidak terlihat seperti wanita lainnya di dunia ini bukan? Inilah fakta para wanita Uighur yang akan membuatmu terpana... Central Asian governments are facing pressure from China to clamp down on Uighur demands for their own state. For the eleven million Uighur people who live in China freedom of speech, religion and movement is strictly controlled. But just along the Silk Road, across the border in Kazakhstan, a quarter of a million Uighurs enjoy relative freedom. For Our World Rustam Qobil meets Kazakh Uighurs concerned about China\'s growing influence in the region.... Central Asian governments are facing pressure from China to clamp down on Uighur demands for their own state. For the eleven million Uighur people who live in China freedom of speech, religion and movement is strictly controlled. But just along the Silk Road, across the border in Kazakhstan, a quarter of a million Uighurs enjoy relative freedom. For Our World Rustam Qobil meets Kazakh Uighurs concerned about China\'s growing influence in the region.... A snapshot of Uighur street food scenes and people from the night market in Kashgar, China. Features dumplings, laghman (lamian noodles), somsa, pomegranate juice, nan bread and nokot chick pea salads. www.uncorneredmarket.com... A snapshot of Uighur street food scenes and people from the night market in Kashgar, China. Features dumplings, laghman (lamian noodles), somsa, pomegranate juice, nan bread and nokot chick pea salads. www.uncorneredmarket.com... Kashgar stands at the very western edge of China -- an oasis city that has long provided relief for travellers on the ancient Silk Road. Parts of the city have stood for more than 2000 years and within its labyrinth, Uighur traditions have played largely unchanged over time. It\'s a living history attracting hordes of tourists every year. But Beijing is bringing in the bulldozers - knocking down great swathes of the old town -- because it says there is an increasing risk of devastation from earthquake. Officials say they\'re worried about the safety of the people who live there. The Uighurs though are a Muslim majority in the city and the region and many residents suspect other motives. They believe Beijing\'s agenda is to push the Uighurs out of the alley ways and corners of old Kashgar and into more manageable and uniform accommodation where they can be monitored and better kept in check. China correspondent Stephen McDonell has managed to gain extraordinary access to Kashgar, its residents and local leadership, to assess the motives behind the demolition program and to explore more broadly the strategic security problems Beijing is trying to contain and cauterise. McDonell manages to gain entry to a highly sensitive security zone outside Kashgar for a bigger picture. Across the mountains in one direction Pakistan is locked in battle with the Taliban in another Afghanistan is facing the same extremist threat. The Chinese government holds grave concerns that Muslim terrorism could find fertile ground here. The Foreign Correspondent team happens upon a full scal... Kashgar stands at the very western edge of China -- an oasis city that has long provided relief for travellers on the ancient Silk Road. Parts of the city have stood for more than 2000 years and within its labyrinth, Uighur traditions have played largely unchanged over time. It\'s a living history attracting hordes of tourists every year. But Beijing is bringing in the bulldozers - knocking down great swathes of the old town -- because it says there is an increasing risk of devastation from earthquake. Officials say they\'re worried about the safety of the people who live there. The Uighurs though are a Muslim majority in the city and the region and many residents suspect other motives. They believe Beijing\'s agenda is to push the Uighurs out of the alley ways and corners of old Kashgar and into more manageable and uniform accommodation where they can be monitored and better kept in check. China correspondent Stephen McDonell has managed to gain extraordinary access to Kashgar, its residents and local leadership, to assess the motives behind the demolition program and to explore more broadly the strategic security problems Beijing is trying to contain and cauterise. McDonell manages to gain entry to a highly sensitive security zone outside Kashgar for a bigger picture. Across the mountains in one direction Pakistan is locked in battle with the Taliban in another Afghanistan is facing the same extremist threat. The Chinese government holds grave concerns that Muslim terrorism could find fertile ground here. The Foreign Correspondent team happens upon a full scal... Experience an incredible insider-view into this Uyghur wedding including beautiful Uyghur dancing (aka Uighur dancing), Uyghur wedding customs, and colorful Uyghur attire - all accompanied by ethnic Uyghur music.... Experience an incredible insider-view into this Uyghur wedding including beautiful Uyghur dancing (aka Uighur dancing), Uyghur wedding customs, and colorful Uyghur attire - all accompanied by ethnic Uyghur music.... Muslim etnis Uighur yang tinggal di wilayah Xinjiang, Cina, mayoritas mengikuti pemahaman Ahlu Sunnah wal Jama’ah. Pemerintah Cina mengatakan bahwa pemerintah menjamin kebebasan beragama bagi setiap warga negara. Tetapi kasus-kasus diskriminasi dan kekerasan terhadap warga Muslim Uighur menunjukkan adanya ketidakseimbangan. Kelompok HAM dan para pengamat menuding pemerintah Cina memberlakukan kebijakan untuk menekan Muslim Uighur dalam kehidupan beragama mereka, seperti menindak para Muslimah yang memakai hijab dan para pria yang berjanggut serta pembatasan-pembatasan terkait dengan ibadah puasa pada bulan Ramadhan. Walaupun demikian, Islam tidak punah di sana. Muslim Uighur tetap berjuang mempertahankan iman mereka dan menjalani hidup mereka. Foto-foto ini menunjukkan sedikit gambaran hidup Muslilm Uighur di Cina.... Muslim etnis Uighur yang tinggal di wilayah Xinjiang, Cina, mayoritas mengikuti pemahaman Ahlu Sunnah wal Jama’ah. Pemerintah Cina mengatakan bahwa pemerintah menjamin kebebasan beragama bagi setiap warga negara. Tetapi kasus-kasus diskriminasi dan kekerasan terhadap warga Muslim Uighur menunjukkan adanya ketidakseimbangan. Kelompok HAM dan para pengamat menuding pemerintah Cina memberlakukan kebijakan untuk menekan Muslim Uighur dalam kehidupan beragama mereka, seperti menindak para Muslimah yang memakai hijab dan para pria yang berjanggut serta pembatasan-pembatasan terkait dengan ibadah puasa pada bulan Ramadhan. Walaupun demikian, Islam tidak punah di sana. Muslim Uighur tetap berjuang mempertahankan iman mereka dan menjalani hidup mereka. Foto-foto ini menunjukkan sedikit gambaran hidup Muslilm Uighur di Cina.... Photo collection of Uighur food with folk song from Ghulja... Photo collection of Uighur food with folk song from Ghulja... Tania Branigan and Dan Chung were the first Western journalists on the scene of brutal conflict between Uighurs and Han Chinese which left 197 dead in the capital of Xinjiang, north western China. This ten minute documentary follows the developing events. Dan Chung/The Guardian http://vimeo.com/5675759... Tania Branigan and Dan Chung were the first Western journalists on the scene of brutal conflict between Uighurs and Han Chinese which left 197 dead in the capital of Xinjiang, north western China. This ten minute documentary follows the developing events. Dan Chung/The Guardian http://vimeo.com/5675759... A Gang Of Racist Chinese Kicked a Little UYGHUR Boy in the Head then Broke His Hands in CHINA... A Gang Of Racist Chinese Kicked a Little UYGHUR Boy in the Head then Broke His Hands in CHINA... The Uyghurs (Uyghur: ئۇيغۇر‎, ULY: Uyghur; [ʔʊjˈʁʊː]; simplified Chinese: 维吾尔; traditional Chinese: 維吾爾; pinyin: Wéiwú'ěr) are a Turkic ethnic group living in Eastern and Central Asia. Today, Uyghurs live primarily in the Xinjiang Uyghur Autonomous Region in the People's Republic of China. An estimated 80% of Xinjiang's Uyghurs live in the southwestern portion of the region, the Tarim Basin. The largest community of Uyghurs outside Xinjiang in China is in Taoyuan County, in south-central Hunan province. Outside of China, significant diasporic communities of Uyghurs exist in the Central Asian countries of Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, and Uzbekistan. Smaller communities are found in Afghanistan, Pakistan, and Turkey. Uyghur is often pronounced /ˈwiːɡər/ by English speakers, though the most acceptable English pronunciation is ooy-goor. Several alternate romanizations also appear: Uighur, Uygur and Uigur. The Xinjiang Uyghur Autonomous Region provincial government recommends that the generic ethnonym [ʔʊjˈʁʊː], adopted in the early 20th century for this Turkic people, be transcribed as "Uyghur".



