2014-07~09



http://www.chinanationalnews.com/index.php/sid/224511243



China city bans people with large beards or Islamic clothing from buses - China National News



A city in China’s mainly Muslim Xinjiang region has banned people with large beards or Islamic clothing from travelling on public buses, state media said, prompting outrage from an overseas rights group on Wednesday. Authorities in Karamay banned people wearing hijabs, niqabs, burkas, or clothing with the Islamic star and crescent symbol from taking local buses, the Karamay Daily reported. The ban also covers ';large beards';, the paper said, adding: ';Those who do not cooperate with inspection teams will be handled by police.'; Xinjiang, a resource rich region which abuts central ... UNESCO and CJ sign partnership agreement to support the Girls' Education Global Campaign with new animation series Dubai, 12 March 2016' UNESCO and CJ Better Life for Girls today signed a partnership agreement that will bring the cartoon character to the fight for girls' education. During the signing ceremony at the 2016 Global Education Skills Forum in Dubai, Sang Gill (Tschaik) Lee, Executive Vice President for CJ Eamp;M said the pre-school animation series will be a global effort to support girls' education with a great story. 'Rainbow Ruby follows a six-year old girl named Ruby as she transports to Rainbow Village where her toys come alive. Throughout the series Ruby experiences different professions, introducing preschool girls to the concept of a dream job, letting them imagine how their jobs can improve their lives in the future.' The partnership builds on the 'Better Life for Girls' campaign, launched in November 2014 by CJ Eamp;M and UNESCO, which aims to help address the lack of access to quality education faced by girls in developing regions. 'Global research convincingly shows that girls' education ' a right in itself - is the most powerful breakthrough strategy for unlocking progress across all the development goals, from health to jobs, with positive repercussions across generations,' said UNESCO Director-General Irina Bokova. 'In partnership with CJ Group, we expect to change perceptions from the youngest age to show that girls can have the same aspirations and dreams as boys, and should have access to a full cycle of quality education.' This is first time that UNESCO joins a global partnership centered on an animation based character for its key initiative. Rainbow Ruby aims to help empower young girls to dream big and look to a bright future. The animation series also brings awareness to the harsh reality that girls and young women in many developing regions may face because of their lack of education, preventing them from reaching their full potential and in turn, hindering economic growth and social progress. In addition, a share of the sales from Rainbow Ruby character products will be contributed to UNESCO's global fund for promoting girls' right to education. CJ Eamp;M will also work with UNESCO to develop Edu-tainment apps and virtual reality content that aim to further the advancement of girls' education globally, utilizing the digital assets from the CGI animation series. Rainbow Ruby is the first original global animation series by CJ Eamp;M, Asia's leading content and media company, as a co-production project with China Entertainment. The agreement was signed during the 2016 Global Education and Skills Forum, hosted by the Varkey Foundation in partnership with UNESCO. For more on UNESCO programmes in education, please visit:' http://www.unesco.org/education'and'http://www.unesco.org/new/health-education. CJ Eamp;M is Asia's leading content and media company headquartered in Seoul, Korea. China Entertainment Co., Ltd. is a subsidiary of the China Animation Group, mainly engaged in the films and TV serials production.""" DHX Media is the appointed distributor of Rainbow Ruby in the U.S., Canada, and EMEA (excluding France). PYONGYANG, North Korea - With the U.S. and South Korean troops staging a big amphibious ... LONDON - The oil prices may have bottomed out as the impact of Iran's return ... UNESCO and CJ sign partnership agreement to support the Girls' Education Global Campaign with new ... BETARE OYA, CAMEROON - Tensions are brewing in eastern Cameroon between residents and small-scale Chinese ... By Ravi Khandelwal Geneva/New Delhi, Mar. 12 (ANI): Leaders and activists from Pakistan-occupied Kashmir and Gilgit-Baltistan ... Get the latest China National News headlines delivered to your inbox. Showing 1 thru 5 out of 10More from our network Showing 6 thru 10 out of 10More from our network © 2000 - 2016 China National News - Midwest Radio Network Pty Ltd. - (LU) A division of Big News Network. All rights reserved



