2014-07~09



http://www.worldbulletin.net/world/141693/popular-imam-murdered-in-restive-east-turkestan



Popular imam murdered in restive East Turkestan | Asia-Pacific | Worldbulletin News



Police say they have apprehended one man and shot dead two others suspected of the murder of the imam of China's largest mosque. Authorities said that the incident happened when the three men resisted arrest with knives and axes at noon on Wednesday. Jume Tahir was killed at 6:58 a.m. on Wednesday after attending morning prayers, according to the state-run Xinhua News Agency. The 74-year-old had been the state-appointed imam of Kashgar's ancient and symbolic Id Kah Mosque in East Turkestan (Xinjiang Uighur Autonomous Region), since 2003. On Tuesday, he had presided over the mosque's Eid al-Fitr ceremony. The 600-year old mosque receives on average of over 2,000 Muslims everyday, but on important religious occasions can welcome up to 20,000. Xinhua reported that according to police, the three suspects - Memetjan Remutillan, Turghun Tursun, and Nurmemet Abidilimit - were "influenced by religious extremism" and planned to "do something big" to increase their influence. The men are understood to be members of the area's Uighur minority - a Turkic-speaking Muslim ethnic minority group, many of whom are agitating for independence and have accused the Chinese government of human rights violations and discrimination. Tahir was also a National People's Congress deputy and the vice president of the China Islamic Association. Xinhua reported that the association has called for peace and a stand against violence and "terrorism" following recent attacks in East Turkestan. Omer Kanat, a spokesman for the U.S.-based World Uyghur Congress, told the Wall Street Journal on Friday that the imam had a reputation as a "tool for the government." "When something happens, the government lets him speak and criticize activities of Uighur," Mr. Kanat said The Hindu-Muslim divide as taken a new turn with Modi's nationalist party Bharatiya Janata has promoted the idea that officially secular India is a Hindu nation, in what critics say is an attempt to marginalise minority Muslims North Korean leader Kim Jong-un has ordered his country's scientists to conduct more nuclear tests in the wake of increasing tensions in the region. He also exhorted them to bolster the nuclear attack capability. MILF Chairman Al Hajj Murad Ibrahim says if peace succeeds in Philippines south can act as facilititator to prevent conflict worldwide North Korea fired two short-range ballistic missiles into the sea on Thursday, Seoul said, as South Korea and the United States conducted massive war games. 'This is the first time we have planned to admit foreign students by holding tests abroad,' an Indian official says The Malay government has identified 18 organizations as terror groups, among them ISIL, Liberation Tigers of Tamil Eelam, Boko Haram and Abu Sayyaf While some watch from beaches and hilltops or say eclipse prayers, others cower in fear believing sun is being eaten by mysterious dragon Head of Thailand's National Security Council says since seizing power in coup Junta's efforts have reduced violence by 60 percent since 2014 A military spokesman says the strikes, which took place in the Shawal Valley of North Waziristan tribal district, began Monday night and continued into Tuesday South Korea announces new punitive measures in response to reclusive neighbor's nuclear test and rocket launch earlier this year One-time largest rebel group posts statement in which regional Ulama calls for sobriety, solidarity for Muslims and non-Muslims A suicide bomber kills eight, injures 21 in northwest Pakistan President Joko Widodo tells OIC summit that Indonesia will do whatever it can to secure unity in Palestine The business climate improves for manufacturers of face masks, air purifiers, and pollution monitors The rebels fear ISIL build up since the Philippine congress failed last month to pass a bill, agreed between the government and the MILF, that would have granted autonomy to the region Chinese police raided 148 points in Muslim Xinjiang in 2014 China jails 45 in East Turkestan for 'illegal border crossing' US based Gulf to be first foreign fuel seller in Mexico    Turkey, EU agree on many proposals, but more time needed Tunisia says Libya attack aimed to set up ISIL 'emirate'



