2014-07~09



http://www.dailysabah.com/politics/2015/07/07/chinas-restrictions-on-uighurs-protested-in-new-york



China’s restrictions on Uighurs protested in New York - Daily Sabah



A group of demonstrators in New York protested China's restrictions imposed on Muslims in East Turkistan on Monday, in order to draw the world's attention to the situation of the Uighurs. The protestors who consisted of activists and non-governmental representatives gathered in New York placed a black wreath in front of China's Permanent Mission at the United Nations. Speaking on behalf of the protestors, Tolga Tekman who is the President of the Young Turks Association said that China's treatment of Uighur Turks was unacceptable. He noted that media outlets do not pay necessary attention to the issue, while he underscored that protests made against China must be conducted in a conscious manner. Tekman stated that China attempts to assimilate Uighur Turks through their repressive state policies. Protestors highlighted that the U.N. should visit East Turkistan and prepare a report regarding the situation of Uighur Turks. Last week, protests broke out throughout Turkey with thousands of people taking to the streets to demand that China stop its alleged discrimination against Muslims. In January, Turkey accepted over 500 Uighur Turks, who sought refuge in the country. East Turkistan, known as the Xinjiang Uighur Autonomous Region, is located in northwest China. Uighurs have long suffered from human rights abuses, with 26.3 million people being killed between 1949 and 1965 and 8.7 million people since 1965. About 35 million people have died because of the Chinese army's oppression or famine. Wearing a headscarf in public, including on public transportation and when getting married in a religious ceremony, were banned in 2014, with a fine of about $353 for wearing a headscarf in public. Radical behavior is banned and the Chinese define not drinking alcohol, not smoking and avoiding eating non-halal food as radical behavior. According to a Uighur Human Rights Project report, 700 people were killed due to political activities last year. The number of those arrests increased 95 percent compared to the previous year, reaching 27,000.



