2014-07~09



http://www.worldbulletin.net/news/145306/uighur-academics-prison-sentence-shows-chinese-oppression



Uighur academic's prison sentence shows Chinese oppression | Asia-Pacific | Worldbulletin News



The World Uighur Congress chairwoman Rebiya Khadeer called China's sentencing of an Uighur professor to life in prison last week "a declaration of war." Ilham Tohti, 45, a prominent economics lecturer at a Beijing university, was arrested in January and accused of promoting the separation of Xinjiang (East Turkestan) from the People’s Republic. Speaking to The Anadolu Agency in Washington on Friday, Rebiya said the Chinese court decision was "declaring a war against Uighurs" and showed the real face of the Chinese oppression.  "China sends the message both to Uighur and the world that you will be punished no matter how you go after your rights, whether you fight with weapons or you seek them in a peaceful way," Rebiya told the AA following an international conference on Uighur history, culture and society held at the George Washington University.  Rebiya said that the court sentenced Tothi to life in prison in order to silence the Uighur not to voice their legitimate rights.  "We told the world that China unjustly punishes us for we peacefully seek our rights, but the world did not believe in that. Now, the imprisonment of Tohti showed the world what we were really talking about," Rebiya said. "Now the world will believe in us."  The Uighurs are a Turkic-speaking Muslim minority who make up 60 percent of the population of the Xinjiang Autonomous Region. They have long protested against clampdowns on religious freedoms and the influx of ethnic Han migrants to the region.  Tohti was tried at the Xinjiang Uyghur Autonomous Region Urumqi Public Court last week. The trial was closed to the media and observers.  He rejected all accusations against him but the Chinese court confiscated all his properties and sentenced him to life in prison.  The World Uighur Congress is the self-proclaimed government in exile. The Hindu-Muslim divide as taken a new turn with Modi's nationalist party Bharatiya Janata has promoted the idea that officially secular India is a Hindu nation, in what critics say is an attempt to marginalise minority Muslims North Korean leader Kim Jong-un has ordered his country's scientists to conduct more nuclear tests in the wake of increasing tensions in the region. He also exhorted them to bolster the nuclear attack capability. MILF Chairman Al Hajj Murad Ibrahim says if peace succeeds in Philippines south can act as facilititator to prevent conflict worldwide North Korea fired two short-range ballistic missiles into the sea on Thursday, Seoul said, as South Korea and the United States conducted massive war games. 'This is the first time we have planned to admit foreign students by holding tests abroad,' an Indian official says The Malay government has identified 18 organizations as terror groups, among them ISIL, Liberation Tigers of Tamil Eelam, Boko Haram and Abu Sayyaf While some watch from beaches and hilltops or say eclipse prayers, others cower in fear believing sun is being eaten by mysterious dragon Head of Thailand's National Security Council says since seizing power in coup Junta's efforts have reduced violence by 60 percent since 2014 A military spokesman says the strikes, which took place in the Shawal Valley of North Waziristan tribal district, began Monday night and continued into Tuesday South Korea announces new punitive measures in response to reclusive neighbor's nuclear test and rocket launch earlier this year One-time largest rebel group posts statement in which regional Ulama calls for sobriety, solidarity for Muslims and non-Muslims A suicide bomber kills eight, injures 21 in northwest Pakistan President Joko Widodo tells OIC summit that Indonesia will do whatever it can to secure unity in Palestine The business climate improves for manufacturers of face masks, air purifiers, and pollution monitors The rebels fear ISIL build up since the Philippine congress failed last month to pass a bill, agreed between the government and the MILF, that would have granted autonomy to the region China jails 45 in East Turkestan for 'illegal border crossing' Chinese police raided 148 points in Muslim Xinjiang in 2014 China opens separatism trial for students of jailed Uighur scholar China court sentences Uighur scholar to life in prison -UPDATED US based Gulf to be first foreign fuel seller in Mexico    Turkey, EU agree on many proposals, but more time needed Tunisia says Libya attack aimed to set up ISIL 'emirate'



