2014-07~09



http://www.worldbulletin.net/headlines/141572/chinese-police-shoot-dead-dozens-in-east-turkestan



Chinese police shoot dead dozens in East Turkestan | Asia-Pacific | Worldbulletin News



Chinese police shot dead dozens of knife-wielding attackers on Monday morning after they staged assaults on two towns in the western region of Xinjiang (East Turkestan), the official Xinhua news agency said on Tuesday. Armed men had first attacked a police station and government offices in the town of Elixku, in Shache county, it said, quoting local police. Some moved on to the nearby town of Huangdi, attacking civilians and smashing and setting fire to six vehicles. "Police officers at the scene shot dead dozens of members of the mob," the brief report said. The dead and injured include not just Uighurs but members of China's majority Han Chinese population, the report said. The U.S.-based Rebiya Kadeer, president of the exiled World Uyghur Congress, called for restraint, saying in a statement that she was worried "China will use this incident to step up repression, causing more people to loose their freedom." The attack took place at the end of the holy month of Ramadan, which officials had tried to get Muslims in Xinjiang to ignore, in an indication of what rights groups say is discrimination targeting the Uighurs. Shache, also known by its Uighur name of Yarkant, is located in Xinjiang's heavily Uighur southwestern part, close to the borders of Tajikistan, Pakistan and Afghanistan. Xinjiang, home to many Turkic-speaking Uighurs, has for years been beset by violence, which the government blames on "militants or separatists" who it says are bent on establishing an independent state. It was not clear why the attack was only being reported on Tuesday, more than a day after it took place, though China's ruling Communist Party, which values stability above all else, had a habit of suppressing or delaying bad news. Exiled Uighur groups and human rights activists say the government's repressive policies in Xinjiang, including controls on Islam, have provoked unrest. China exercises tight control over Xinjiang, making vists by foreign reporters there to independetly assess the situation extremely difficult. Xinjiang, resource-rich and strategically located on the borders of central Asia, is crucial to meeting China's growing energy needs. Exiles, rights groups and many foreign experts say that most of the proceeds have gone to the Han Chinese, stoking resentment among Uighurs. More than 200 people have died in unrest in Xinjiang in the past year or so, the government says, prompting a tough crackdown by Beijing. The Hindu-Muslim divide as taken a new turn with Modi's nationalist party Bharatiya Janata has promoted the idea that officially secular India is a Hindu nation, in what critics say is an attempt to marginalise minority Muslims North Korean leader Kim Jong-un has ordered his country's scientists to conduct more nuclear tests in the wake of increasing tensions in the region. He also exhorted them to bolster the nuclear attack capability. MILF Chairman Al Hajj Murad Ibrahim says if peace succeeds in Philippines south can act as facilititator to prevent conflict worldwide North Korea fired two short-range ballistic missiles into the sea on Thursday, Seoul said, as South Korea and the United States conducted massive war games. 'This is the first time we have planned to admit foreign students by holding tests abroad,' an Indian official says The Malay government has identified 18 organizations as terror groups, among them ISIL, Liberation Tigers of Tamil Eelam, Boko Haram and Abu Sayyaf While some watch from beaches and hilltops or say eclipse prayers, others cower in fear believing sun is being eaten by mysterious dragon Head of Thailand's National Security Council says since seizing power in coup Junta's efforts have reduced violence by 60 percent since 2014 A military spokesman says the strikes, which took place in the Shawal Valley of North Waziristan tribal district, began Monday night and continued into Tuesday South Korea announces new punitive measures in response to reclusive neighbor's nuclear test and rocket launch earlier this year One-time largest rebel group posts statement in which regional Ulama calls for sobriety, solidarity for Muslims and non-Muslims A suicide bomber kills eight, injures 21 in northwest Pakistan President Joko Widodo tells OIC summit that Indonesia will do whatever it can to secure unity in Palestine The business climate improves for manufacturers of face masks, air purifiers, and pollution monitors The rebels fear ISIL build up since the Philippine congress failed last month to pass a bill, agreed between the government and the MILF, that would have granted autonomy to the region China jails 45 in East Turkestan for 'illegal border crossing' US based Gulf to be first foreign fuel seller in Mexico    Turkey, EU agree on many proposals, but more time needed Tunisia says Libya attack aimed to set up ISIL 'emirate'



