2014-07~09



http://www.worldbulletin.net/headlines/141800/almost-100-killed-in-east-turkestan-last-week



Almost 100 killed in East Turkestan last week | Asia-Pacific | Worldbulletin News



Masked men attacked civilians, police and officials last week in China's far western region of Xinjiang (East Turkestan) leading to almost 100 deaths, the government said on Sunday, giving fresh details on one of the worst incidents of unrest in years. The Xinjiang government said 59 "terrorists" were gunned down by security forces in Shache county in Xinjiang's far south, while 37 civilians were killed in the attacks on July 28. Authorities reported the incident a day later, saying dozens of people had been killed when knife-wielding attackers had staged assaults in two towns in the region. It is unclear why the government waited so long to announce detailed casualties, though bad news has sometimes been covered up or delayed in the past. Due to tight security, visits by foreign journalists are very difficult, making an independent assessment of the situation almost impossible. "This was a serious terrorist attack incident which has links to domestic and overseas terrorist organisations and was organised, premeditated, carefully planned and evil," the Xinjiang government said on its official news website (www.ts.cn) in the early hours of Sunday morning. The mob attacked a police station and government offices in Elixku town, before moving on to the nearby town of Huangdi, targeting civilians and smashing vehicles as they went, it added. They also set up roadblocks on a main road and stopped vehicles, attacking passengers and threatening others with knives and axes into joining their attack, the statement said, citing police. Xinjiang, home to the Muslim Uighur people, who speak a Turkic language, has been beset for years by violence that the government blames on "separatists" but exiled Uighur groups and human rights activists say the government's repressive policies in Xinjiang, including controls on Islam, have provoked. The attack took place at the end of the holy month of Ramadan, which officials had tried to get Muslims in Xinjiang to ignore in an indication of what rights groups say is discrimination targeting the Uighurs. The Xinjiang government named a man with a Uighur sounding name as the ringleader, Nuramat Sawut, who it said had close ties with East Turkestan Islamic Movement and had been involved in separatist activities since last year. "Since the beginning of the Islamic holy month of Ramadan, the group had had multiple gatherings in remote places during which they made attack plans and prepared tools for their violent acts," the government added. The dead included 35 Han Chinese civilians and two ethnic Uighurs who held senior local government positions, it said, while 215 suspected attackers were detained. Hundreds have been killed in Xinjiang in the past year and a half and the last week saw a series of deadly incidents, including the murder of a prominent imam at a major mosque in the old Silk Road city of Kashgar. Dilxat Raxit, spokesman for the exiled World Uyghur Congress, said the government's violent response and continued repression could only make things worse. "If Beijing does not change its policy of extreme repression, this could lead to even more clashes," he said in comments emailed to Reuters. But Xinjiang's top official, Communist Party chief Zhang Chunxian, said there would be no let up in the government "fight against militants." Adding to the tensions, China last week indicted prominent Uighur professor Ilham Tohti, who has championed the rights of his community, on separatism charges. His case has drawn attention from the United States and European Union and is seen by rights groups as part of a broader crackdown on dissent in Xinjiang. Xinjiang has rich coal, oil and gas reserves and is strategically located on the borders of Central Asia, Afghanistan, Pakistan and India. The Hindu-Muslim divide as taken a new turn with Modi's nationalist party Bharatiya Janata has promoted the idea that officially secular India is a Hindu nation, in what critics say is an attempt to marginalise minority Muslims North Korean leader Kim Jong-un has ordered his country's scientists to conduct more nuclear tests in the wake of increasing tensions in the region. He also exhorted them to bolster the nuclear attack capability. MILF Chairman Al Hajj Murad Ibrahim says if peace succeeds in Philippines south can act as facilititator to prevent conflict worldwide North Korea fired two short-range ballistic missiles into the sea on Thursday, Seoul said, as South Korea and the United States conducted massive war games. 'This is the first time we have planned to admit foreign students by holding tests abroad,' an Indian official says The Malay government has identified 18 organizations as terror groups, among them ISIL, Liberation Tigers of Tamil Eelam, Boko Haram and Abu Sayyaf While some watch from beaches and hilltops or say eclipse prayers, others cower in fear believing sun is being eaten by mysterious dragon Head of Thailand's National Security Council says since seizing power in coup Junta's efforts have reduced violence by 60 percent since 2014 A military spokesman says the strikes, which took place in the Shawal Valley of North Waziristan tribal district, began Monday night and continued into Tuesday South Korea announces new punitive measures in response to reclusive neighbor's nuclear test and rocket launch earlier this year One-time largest rebel group posts statement in which regional Ulama calls for sobriety, solidarity for Muslims and non-Muslims A suicide bomber kills eight, injures 21 in northwest Pakistan President Joko Widodo tells OIC summit that Indonesia will do whatever it can to secure unity in Palestine The business climate improves for manufacturers of face masks, air purifiers, and pollution monitors The rebels fear ISIL build up since the Philippine congress failed last month to pass a bill, agreed between the government and the MILF, that would have granted autonomy to the region China jails 45 in East Turkestan for 'illegal border crossing' US based Gulf to be first foreign fuel seller in Mexico    Turkey, EU agree on many proposals, but more time needed Tunisia says Libya attack aimed to set up ISIL 'emirate'



