2014-07~09



http://www.scmp.com/news/asia/article/1595568/indonesian-islamists-exploit-political-vacuum-ahead-widodo-presidency



Indonesian Islamists 'exploit political vacuum' ahead of Widodo presidency | South China Morning Post



To forward this article using your default email client (e.g. Outlook), click here. Room to grow for jihadist group as Indonesia focuses on transition of presidency, experts warn A political vacuum in Indonesia as the nation transitions from the presidency of Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono to that of newly elected Joko Widodo has opened up space for a fugitive militant with links to Islamic State to expand his influence. Abu Wardah Santoso, wanted since 2007, is the leader of a small but increasingly dangerous militant group called East Indonesia Mujahideen (MIT) in Poso on the island of Sulawesi. Santoso is thought to be the first Indonesian to have declared support for the Islamic State leader, Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi, and some people who trained with the Indonesian militant are now fighting in Syria. "Santoso is a self-styled commander of MIT and he is the first Indonesian, as far as we know, to pledge allegiance to al-Baghdadi after the announcement of the caliphate," Sidney Jones, director of the Institute for Policy Analysis of Conflict, said. "He (Santoso) has appeared on videos, pledging allegiance and declaring support for Islamic State … there have been Islamic State members in Syria who have referred to MIT and praised them as a jihadist group. There are people who trained with Santoso who are currently fighting with Islamic State," added Jones. The government says 66 Indonesians have travelled to Iraq and Syria to fight and four have died there. It is currently monitoring areas prone to radical movements, including Poso, Ambon in the Maluku Islands, and eastern and central Java. Indonesian counterterrorism sources said the government had been preoccupied with the political transition and that political will was lacking to go after Santoso. "The government is too busy ensuring a smooth transition to spend much time in dealing with militants like Santoso. Such operations need political will as it carries implications for society," a senior Indonesia counterterrorism source said. "The danger of this transitionary period is that it risks being exploited by groups like Santoso's to expand and grow," the source added. Yudhoyono will hand over power on October 20 to former Jakarta governor Widodo, who won the presidential election on July 9. Last Saturday, four members of China's ethnic Uygur minority were arrested in Palu, the capital of Central Sulawesi province, on suspicion of links to Islamic State. They were believed to have been on their way to meet Santoso. While Indonesian authorities have yet to establish the reason for the Uygurs' presence in Palu, one possible explanation was that they were going to meet Santoso to receive "training", according to Jones. The counterterrorism source said Santoso was hiding in an area called Taman Jeka in the Blue Mountain region of Poso. "The topography is very good for carrying out (paramilitary) training," said the source. "Santoso is dangerous because he has the ability to influence people in Poso. He has been able to control the mosques there," he added. "He also has a deserter from the country's special forces by the name of Daeng Koro join his ranks," the source added. Santoso is believed to only accept people who come bearing weapons, logistics and money for training. "He doesn't just accept anyone wanting to undergo training," said the source. "I don't think he constitutes any major threat to the Indonesian state. He's dangerous, yes, because people are always trying to get him to get skills to undertake some major plots. However, their capacity remains extremely low," said Jones. "He has become in some ways a symbolic centre of the Islamic State network in Indonesia because he is seen as having held out against the police for such a long time," said Jones. Poso is the heartland of Indonesia's home-grown attempts to create an area under sharia law. "He is still seen as the person whose efforts have the possibility of [forging] the nucleus of an Islamic community in Poso," said Jones. "If [Islamic State] as announced by Baghdadi is seen as a caliphate that will rest on building blocks of Islamic polities from around the world, then Indonesian jihadis believe the building block somehow will be centred around Poso." To forward this article using your default email client (e.g. Outlook), click here.



